=The Truth=
=Episode 26=
I slashed Monkey's head with a knife.
Because of that,
I was detained for 15 days.
During my detention,
they went to Mengqing.
They told her
to prepare a coffin for me,
saying they'd kill me
the moment I was released.
Mengqing was terrified and wanted
to made peace with them.
So Mengqing went...
Take your time.
She went to Monkey.
Monkey told her to sleep with him,
and then they can let me off.
Mengqing refused
and knelt on the ground begging him.
But Monkey...
They ruined my woman.
I couldn't swallow that insult.
So after my release,
I grabbed a kitchen knife
and killed Monkey.
Unfortunately,
while I was killing Monkey,
his underlings saw me.
That's how I ended up
serving seventeen years in prison.
Mengqing waited for me
for those seventeen years.
But I never expected
that to compensate Monkey's family,
Mengqing took out a loan.
To repay it,
she became a hostess.
Then she relapsed into drugs.
I only learned this after my release.
I failed Mengqing.
I didn't just break her heart,
but also destroyed her health.
So I made a decision.
What decision?
Since she couldn't quit,
I'd secretly start using drugs too.
Then she wouldn't leave me
for fear of dragging me down.
But she found out.
Why did you claim Zhao Heizi
killed Wang Mengqing?
Two years ago,
Zhao Heizi was our landlord.
He had a gambling habit.
After losing money,
he'd demand rent from us.
One day, he caught Mengqing and me
using drugs in the house.
Then he blackmailed me,
demanding ten thousand yuan,
or he'll call the police.
(Wang Mengqing, Bai Xue)
Mengqing had just pulled out the needle.
Suddenly she foamed at the mouth
and collapsed.
I begged him to let us
go to the hospital first.
But he refused and insisted
on getting the money first.
I didn't have any money at that moment.
So we were at a standoff.
I could only watch
Mengqing dying in my arms.
It was him!
He must pay for Mengqing's death.
Do you know this woman named Bai Xue?
No.
Lu Jun, you're lying.
Wang Mengqing isn't dead.
Bai Xue.
We've caught Zhao Heizi's killer.
You should know Lu Jun, right?
He said you met at a bar
in the year of 2000.
Just past history.
Bai Xue.
Two years ago, you were Wang Mengqing.
Why did Lu Jun claim Wang Mengqing died
and that he killed Zhao Heizi for her?
It seems that Lu Jun told you
a moving love story.
About the photo...
When I came to see you,
you already knew it was Lu Jun,
didn't you?
Wang Mengqing did die,
just not two years ago.
Wang Mengqing died seventeen years ago.
After Lu Jun went to prison,
I endured by swallowing
every ounce of bitterness.
I never wanted to see him
after his release.
What did he ever do
for me all these years?
He was the one who messed up,
yet I was the one
struggling to repay the loan.
By the time I realized all this,
all I felt for him was hate.
But Lu Jun didn't get it.
He was moved
by my seventeen years of sacrifice,
thought he owed me,
and wanted to make it up to me.
He trapped me repeatedly
in the room with his suffocating love.
Will you let me go or not?
At first, I kept moving
to avoid him.
Later, I unexpectedly discovered
I was pregnant.
I feel this child
is my reason to keep living.
So to have my child,
I forced myself to quit drugs again.
Mengqing!
Sorry.
- Sorry, Mengqing.
- My stomach!
What's wrong with your stomach?
Mengqing!
I didn't mean to.
I'm sorry.
Sorry.
Help!
That was my only chance to be a mother.
Later, Lu Jun forced me
to live with him again.
He said he'd take good care of me.
But I didn't need that.
He became more extreme and twisted.
So Lu Jun was sent to rehab,
and it's a scheme
you and Zhao Heizi set up?
Yes.
I had no other choice back then.
Open up! Rent collection!
Zhao.
You're early today.
Don't worry.
I have your rent ready.
I just bought groceries.
Come in for a meal before you go?
No need.
Thank you.
I have to play mahjong
after collecting rent.
Right on time.
You two eat up.
I'm off. Bye.
Take care.
Who is it?
It's me.
Rent collection. Open up.
Just a second.
Police.
Someone's using drugs in my rental unit.
Why did Lu Jun claim Wang Mengqing died?
After Lu Jun went to rehab,
our belongings
were still with Zhao Heizi.
When Lu Jun's brother came for them,
Zhao asked him to pass a message,
saying my long-term drug use
killed me at the hospital that day.
Lu Jun believed it?
Partly, I guess.
But that's probably when Lu Jun
started hating Zhao Heizi.
You told Zhao Heizi
to say that to Lu Jun's brother?
No.
I just wanted to escape Lu Jun
and get a chance to leave.
I never meant for Lu Jun
to think I died.
Zhao Heizi probably didn't expect
that it would get him killed by Lu Jun.
Then why would Zhao Heizi do that?
Why?
You should ask him.
Ye.
Captain Leng.
How's Bai Xue's investigation going?
We interviewed Bai Xue's friends.
Only Zhao Heizi's mahjong buddies
heard him mention it.
It also confirms Bai Xue's claim.
Zhao Heizi did tell Lu Jun's brother
that Wang Mengqing was dead.
Besides, Bai Xue left Lu Jun
without taking anything,
so his brother didn't doubt it.
But this doesn't prove
what role Bai Xue played in this case.
Captain Leng.
I just checked
Bai Xue's recent purchase records.
I found a month ago,
she bought men's sneakers,
the same model as the pair
from Lu Jun's hotel room.
Here's the purchase record.
If that's the case,
it proves they met before the murder.
Bai Xue was lying.
Pull their chat logs and call records.
Yes.
See if there's more evidence.
Got it.
Hurry.
(Comparing fingerprints. Please wait.)
(The target and original fingerprints
belong to two different individuals.)
Ye Qian, Liu Yang.
Hand these out.
Captain Leng.
We accessed Lu Jun's internet records
from an internet cafe near the hotel.
His chat logs show
his contact with Bai Xue
started one month before the murder.
Chat logs included photos
of Zhao Heizi abusing Bai Xue
and her accusations against Zhao Heizi.
Their last contact was
the afternoon before the murder.
Bai Xue told Lu Jun time and location
of Zhao's visit to the mahjong parlor.
Bai Xue deliberately planned
for Lu Jun to kill Zhao Heizi.
Let's go.
Talk to them again.
Lu Jun.
Have you seen Bai Xue?
You mean Zhao Heizi's mistress?
You've seen her?
I had trailed Zhao Heizi for a while.
I saw her from a distance.
Take a look at this.
Is this Wang Mengqing or Bai Xue?
Wang Mengqing is dead.
This is Bai Xue.
Zhao Heizi's mistress you mentioned.
How's it? Doesn't she look familiar?
Lu Jun.
Wang Mengqing you claimed
Zhao Heizi killed two years ago
is now going by the name Bai Xue.
So did Bai Xue know your plan
of killing Zhao Heizi?
I've already told you.
Mengqing died two years ago.
I don't know any woman named Bai Xue.
Seventeen years ago, Wang Mengqing
promised to buy you a pair of shoes.
Now she has finally
fulfilled that promise, right?
Bai Xue's fingerprints
are on these shoes.
Furthermore, from your chat records
with Bai Xue,
we've uncovered Bai Xue's accusations
against Zhao Heizi.
Lu Jun.
Anything else you want to say?
Killing Zhao Heizi
was my decision alone.
And I acted alone.
It has nothing to do with Mengqing.
Why did you buy that grave?
While I was in rehab,
I found out Mengqing died.
I had my brother buy it.
After her death, I dreamed of her often.
She told me how much she suffered
over those seventeen years.
I dreamed she fell down the stairs
and miscarried.
I even dreamed I locked her up
and wouldn't let her out.
She begged me to let her go.
I felt I owed her.
I regretted it every single day.
So after I was released, I wanted
to move her remains there.
But then you discovered
Wang Mengqing wasn't dead
and became
Zhao Heizi's mistress as Bai Xue.
So you got to her and demanded
an explanation from her.
No.
I thought Mengqing was living well
with Zhao Heizi.
But Mengqing told me
that Zhao Heizi would beat her
whenever he drank.
He even took her ID card,
so she couldn't go anywhere.
And there was no one to help her.
So I...
So after you killed Zhao Heizi,
knowing we'd come to you,
you led us to the grave
just to make us believe
that you killed Zhao Heizi
for Wang Mengqing.
So we wouldn't suspect Bai Xue, right?
Was it worth it?
I have never felt the warmth
of a family since I was little.
Mengqing is my only family
in this world.
For her, it was worth it.
You know everything now?
Ever since you knew
Lu Jun was out of rehab,
you had been planning
to escape Zhao Heizi?
Zhao Heizi once said something.
He said I was a bird with clipped wings,
destined to be kept in a cage.
If not by this person,
then by that one.
Two years ago,
I thought getting rid of Lu Jun
meant freedom.
I blamed all the suffering and hardship
of those seventeen years on him.
I thought once I got rid of him,
everything would be better.
How did Zhao Heizi keep you around?
Why didn't you leave?
I was too tired
to go anywhere.
I told you.
He treated me well.
He was generous,
and didn't try to take anything from me.
At my age,
with no family to rely on,
no marriage,
no job,
and no children,
I don't even know why I'm alive.
Just living a meaningless life.
Don't you think so?
Did Zhao Heizi really beat you?
No.
He never beat me.
I lied to Lu Jun.
Why did you have Lu Jun kill Zhao Heizi?
Why?
He forced me to.
Once when Zhao Heizi was drunk,
he said that I miscarried two years ago
because he told Lu Jun
I wanted to run away.
He told Lu Jun
I was carrying another man's child
and won't live properly with him.
But that child was Lu Jun's.
I don't care about others.
But Lu Jun didn't trust me.
Don't you think it's his retribution?
Let's go.
I'm off.
Alright.
I'm off, Ye.
Let's go.
Qian.
Time for food.
Let's go.
(Dan Qing)
This place clearly doesn't
get many visitors.
Two types of footprints.
Both fresh.
One is from sneakers,
and the other is from flip-flops.
The sneakers are about size 44.
The flip-flops are about size 42.
Based on stride length
and gait characteristics,
both belong to males.
But only the flip-flop prints
are left on the way back.
Two types of footprints.
Homicide?
Starting from the stairwell, flip-flop
prints show steady forward movement.
While the sneaker prints
show slow backward movement.
This continued until the victim
was forced back to the roof edge.
Only then did the flip-flop prints stop.
This railing isn't short.
It's quite sturdy too.
The chance of accidentally falling
during shoving isn't high.
The two types of prints aren't chaotic.
No struggle or fight between them.
The sneaker prints
suddenly vanish at the roof edge.
From this perspective,
the victim was likely lifted
by the person in flip-flops
and pushed down from here.
The victim was a grown man.
How could such a young man be lifted
onto the railing and pushed down
without resisting or struggling?
No fingerprints on the railing.
Combined with the footprints,
the victim was likely pushed down
after losing the ability to resist.
This should be fiber
from some kind of clothing.
No weathering or fading.
It was likely left recently.
The victim wasn't wearing
fabric of this color.
The fiber came from someone else.
I'll examine it at the lab.
Skin, bones, internal organs, and many
other tissue and organ injuries.
Epidermal damage is minor,
but there's internal bleeding.
Specifics will be clear
after the autopsy back at the lab.
Looks like a fall from height.
But we can't confirm
it's a suicide, homicide,
or an accident.
Wait.
What's up?
It really is this kid.
You know him?
He's the one who poisoned the dogs.
His name is Liu... Liu Xiaofeng.
I got a call from Captain Leng.
It startled me.
Did Liu Xiaofeng jump to kill himself?
Seriously?
We can't be completely sure yet.
Were you the one handling
Liu Xiaofeng's case before?
Not really a case.
Just a civil dispute.
You know Jiao and his wife well.
You might hear about it.
Liu Xiaofeng was a proper graduate
from a prestigious university.
He couldn't find a job,
so he just stayed at home.
And it lasted for years.
His parents could do nothing with him.
His parents divorced
when he was very young.
Liu Xiaofeng lived with his mom.
He came to the station twice
dealing with incidents.
And his mom also came too.
How to put it?
You'll know when you see.
Let's go.
Yes, right upstairs.
Mr. Cao.
Based on your understanding,
would Liu Xiaofeng offend anyone?
Of course.
Just from the dog poisoning incidents,
several owners hated his guts.
But they probably won't
go after him over a dog.
Like Jiao, they didn't
make him compensate.
A few owners demanded compensation.
Was it a lot?
Not much.
His family isn't well off.
After learning about his situation,
everyone was understanding.
We gave him a lecture
and he wrote a guarantee letter,
promising he'd never do it again.
Then this case was considered closed.
This way, come on.
Anyone home?
Who is it?
Why are you here again?
My son hasn't caused any trouble.
Here's the thing.
He signed letters of understanding
with several dog owners before.
We have to conduct a follow-up visit
and get more details.
Don't falsely blame my son
for everything.
He has been very well-behaved lately.
He never sets foot outside.
He's been surfing the internet
and hasn't gone out at all.
Liu Xiaofeng is home?
Don't believe it?
Come in and see for yourselves.
Why are you so idle?
Always causing me trouble.
Come in.
Xiaofeng.
Liu Xiaofeng, hear me?
Get out now!
The victim is Liu Xiaofeng,
male, twenty-seven years old,
a local.
The coroner confirmed the cause
of death was a fall from height.
Time of death was around midnight
on the night of the crime.
A contusion's on the back of his head.
It doesn't match a fall from height.
It's judged to be an ante-mortem injury.
(Suspect's footprints found
on the roof of Zijing Apartment.)
Combined with clues found on the roof
like footprints and scrape marks,
we suspect he was struck on the back
of the head and unconscious,
and then thrown from the building.
The injury on the back of his head
and no signs of a struggle at the scene.
We suspect the perpetrator
was an acquaintance.
By the way,
the red fibers found
at the scene are polyester.
Their source is unknown.
What about Liu Xiaofeng's social circle?
Based on his family's feedback
and our investigation
of the victim's phone contacts,
Liu Xiaofeng's social circle
was quite limited.
Indeed, as his mother said,
he lived a rather solitary life.
He had few contact with others.
No valuable leads were found
among his existing social circle.
Have you checked those dog owners?
Still screening them.
But nothing valuable
has been found so far.
Forensic unit cracked
Liu Xiaofeng's computer password
and found an internal forum email.
(Zijing Apartment rooftop)
The email content was simple.
Zijing Apartment rooftop,
which is the crime scene.
It was sent at 10 PM
the night before the crime.
Can you trace the sender?
Currently, we only know this username
was randomly generated by the system.
This forum is quite old,
relying on email registration,
not real-name authentication.
But we can roughly pinpoint the location
via the login IP address.
(Juji Internet Cafe Club)
Sir.
Six yuan an hour.
Members get 10 percent off.
Come on, hand me your ID card.
Police. Some questions for you.
Officers.
This IP address
is registered here, right?
Yes, it is.
Pull up the footage
for around 10 PM two nights ago.
Alright, a moment.
Here.
Business is tough for internet cafes.
I am relatively busy today.
Do you recognize these three people?
It's my first time
seeing this young guy.
He has never been here before.
The other two are members.
They come by my place every few days.
Zoom in.
It's already at max zoom.
Get me their ID information.
No need for that trouble.
She's right there.
Where is she?
She was just there.
(Juji Internet Cafe Club)
Master.
I checked the ID card.
It's a reported lost ID card.
The original owner
is at her registered address.
She lost this ID card
about half a year ago
and got a new one now.
Officer.
I really didn't know
this ID card wasn't hers.
She's a regular customer.
She came here about half a year ago
to get a membership card.
She used this exact ID card
when applying for the membership card.
I register according
to real-name requirements.
Officer.
Don't fine me over this.
As you can see,
the business is really struggling.
I'm almost out of business.
I need the footage
and this computer.
Okay.
I'll cooperate.
(Yunxi Police Department)
Ye.
Food's ready.
Take one to my master.
Okay.
The forensic unit found the computer
used for emailing Liu Xiaofeng.
It's the one used by that woman.
Found any fingerprints?
Too many people touched it.
Nothing useful has been found so far.
The forensic unit is checking
the surrounding footage.
Since we have video of that woman,
we might find some clues.
Okay.
Give me some.
Here.
Lei.
Time to eat.
Okay, let's eat.
Do you think that woman
could be the killer?
Hard to say.
After this case wraps up,
I'll retire around Chinese New Year.
Then I'll travel around with my wife.
The world is vast, and I want to see it.
You make it sound
like you're retiring right now.
Just kidding.
Enough talk.
Come on, let's get to work.
Lei.
The suspect is very cautious.
I feel something's off.
Hold on.
Look at this.
It's her.
Qian.
This is the last place
surveillance caught that woman.
Further inside is the urban village,
where surveillance doesn't cover.
This urban village isn't large,
and that girl's build and features
are quite distinctive.
Let's ask around.
Okay.
Hello, we're from CID.
Have you seen her?
No.
Thanks.
Excuse me, have you seen her?
No.
Thanks.
Thank you.
You need evidence to act.
There's no way
we have fireworks at home.
Fireworks have been banned
in the city for years.
Why are you blaming me?
The family next door has an e-bike.
They often bring it inside to charge.
Alright, calm down first.
Illegal e-bike charging
is another issue.
The key issue now is
the explosion started at your house
and the blast originated in your room.
It has nothing to do with others.
I rented that room out.
Then ask your tenant
if he stored
any flammable materials in your room.
Let me tell you.
Fortunately, no one was hurt this time.
If something serious happened,
you'd share liability as the landlord.
I want to reach him too.
But he won't answer my calls.
CID.
Hello.
An explosion? What happened?
We're still checking.
Probably because of flammable materials.
That's my tenant's girlfriend.
Are you sure?
Yes. I've seen her before.
I recognize her.
♪Replacing the weight of tears
with that of sweat♪
♪Covering the gunshot's sound
with wounds♪
♪No one is born unyielding and strong♪
♪But because someone
always rushes ahead♪
♪To shield us from the storm♪
♪When every extraordinary act
becomes routine♪
♪Just to polish the badge
upon their shoulder♪
♪Like light surging unseen
through the night♪
♪Converging into your form♪
♪Looking up♪
♪Such dazzling glory♪
♪Like hope♪
♪Reaching out its arms♪
♪Cloaked in light♪
♪Alone, they charge ahead♪
♪Traversing♪
♪The battlefield of fate♪